we use the internet to pay bills
get the latest news communicate with
friends and family and shop for products
and groceries
we can run our entire lives from the
internet
in the same way that an organization
where a business's physical location
should be accessible for people with
disabilities
their website should be as well despite
the fact that one billion people on
earth suffer from permanent disabilities
of different kinds
and even more experienced temporary
difficulties only two percent of
websites on the internet are accessible
to them
that is why it is so important to design
an accessible website
using web content accessibility
guidelines wcag are the documents
explaining how to make web content more
accessible
primarily for people with disabilities
but also for user access methods
including limited devices such as mobile
phones
these guidelines were developed by the
world wide web consortium
the main international standards
organization for the internet within the
past 20 years to provide a single shared
standard that meets the needs of
individuals
organizations and governments
internationally but why should you care
first it opens you up to an even bigger
audience accessibility is not just
for people with auditory cognitive
neurological
physical or visual disabilities any
temporary disability like a broken hand
or other injury
or age related problems can make it
difficult or impossible to navigate your
website
even a person on the subway who wants to
watch your ad but left their headphones
at home
or people with a poor internet
connection are included that's an
awful lot of people who might have
difficulty interacting with your website
or buying your products and services
6.9 billion dollars annually is lost by
non-accessible e-commerce retailers to
their accessible competitors
also complying with web standards
enhances performance
sites that are standards compliant will
run faster work is expected on the
largest number of devices and operating
systems
and be less likely to crash what is most
important
they'll get better search engine
rankings finally
it's just the right thing to do
responsibility and initiative are the
keys to healthy relationships in society
another important reason for compliance
is the legal aspect
the number of lawsuits based on
accessibility discrimination is rising
each year
for example in just the u.s there were 2
285 lawsuits in 2018
compared with 814 in 2017
nike amazon dominoes and even beyonce
were sued for their websites being
inaccessible
at the moment there are different pieces
of legislation in different countries
that are aiming to make the internet
more accessible to everyone
for example in 2005 the government of
ontario canada
established the accessibilities for
ontarians with disabilities act
according to this all public sector
organizations including government
municipalities
educational institutions and all private
organizations with 50 or more employees
businesses non-profits and private
educational institutions
are required to be accessible by january
1st 2021
similar laws have been adopted in
australia china india
israel japan sweden the united kingdom
the united states
the european union and other countries
today's trends show that compliance with
web content accessibility guidelines
will become mandatory in most of the
world
in the very near future what about your
website
is it already accessible